During civil disturbance adopt such an attitude that people do not attach any importance to you – they neither burden you with complicated affairs, nor try to derive any advantage out of you.
He who is greedy is disgraced; he who discloses his hardship will always be humiliated
He who has no control over his tongue will often have to face discomfort.
Avarice is disgrace; cowardice is a defect; poverty often disables an intelligent man from arguing his case; a poor man is a stranger in his own town
Misfortune and helplessness are calamities; patience is a kind of bravery; to sever attachments with the wicked world is the greatest wealth; piety is the best weapon of defense.
The mind of a wise man is the safest custody of secrets; cheerfulness is the key to friendship; patience and forbearance will conceal many defects.
A conceited and self-admiring person is disliked by others; charity and alms are the best remedy for ailments and calamities
One has to account in the next world for the deeds that he has done in this world.
Man is a wonderful creature; he sees through the layers of fat (eyes), hears through a bone (ears) and speaks through a lump of flesh (tongue).
When this world favors somebody, it lends him the attributes, and surpassing merits of others and when it turns its face away from him it snatches away even his own excellences and fame.
Live amongst people in such a manner that if you die they weep over you and if you are alive they crave for your company.
Unfortunate is he who cannot gain a few sincere friends during his life and more unfortunate is the one who has gained them and then lost them (through his deeds).
When some blessings come to you, do not drive them away through thanklessness.
He who is deserted by friends and relatives will often find help and sympathy from strangers.
Every person who is tempted to go astray, does not deserve punishment.
The world is but a moment, so make it a moment of obedience.
Do not let your difficulties fill you with anxiety, after all, it is only in the darkest nights that stars shine more brightly.
A wise man always has something to say, whereas a fool always needs to say something.
One who has knowledge is not equal to one who does not have it, and one who acts upon it is not equal to one who does not act upon it.
Do not force your children to behave like you, for surely they have been created for a time which is different to your time.
A true friend is one who knows your weaknesses and strengths but still loves you.
Knowledge is better than wealth, because knowledge protects you while you have to guard wealth.
To give a benefit with one hand and to receive it with another is not generosity; it is hypocrisy.
The strongest among you is the one who controls his anger.
If you want to be safe from the harms of your enemy, do not harm him in return.
The worth of every man is in his religion, his intellect, his independence, and his manners.
He who has a thousand friends has not a friend to spare, and he who has one enemy will meet him everywhere.
Patience is of two kinds: patience over what pains you, and patience against what you covet.
True silence is the rest of the mind, and is to the spirit what sleep is to the body, nourishment and refreshment.
A wise man's question contains half of the answer.
Nothing hurts a good soul and a kind heart more than to live amongst people who cannot understand it.
The value of a man is measured by his courage; his veracity is measured by his self-respect and his tolerance; his worth is measured by his conduct; and his consciousness is measured by his truthfulness.
Speak good or remain silent.
Your friend is your needs answered.
The best deed of a great man is to forgive and forget.
An honest enemy is better than a best friend who lies.
The tongue is like a lion. If you let it loose, it will wound someone.
There is no wealth like knowledge, no poverty like ignorance.
The worst sin is that which the sinner takes lightly.
He who knows himself knows God.
Do not sell your conscience for anything but heaven.
One who reveals your faults to you like a mirror is your true friend.
Generosity is to help a deserving person without his request, and if you help him after his request, then it is either out of self-respect or to avoid rebuke.
Anger begins with madness and ends with regret.
A man's worth depends upon the nobility of his aspirations.
One who rushes madly after wealth increases his troubles.
You are either your own best friend or your own worst enemy.
Do not let your tongue outrun your sense.
Forgiveness is the crown of greatness.
Knowledge without action is like a tree without fruit.
The best way to live is to be like water, for water benefits all things and goes against none of them.
Beware of the prayer of the oppressed, even if he is an unbeliever, for there is no barrier between it and Allah.
The worst of leaders is he who is oppressive, and the best of leaders is he who is just.
A man's measure is his will.
Knowledge is like a tree, its roots are your intellect, and its branches are your deeds.
The one who is not contented with what he has, would not be contented with what he would like to have.
The wealth of a miser is as useless as a pebble in the desert.
The most beloved of people according to Allah is he who brings most benefit to people, and the most beloved of deeds according to Allah the Mighty, the Magnificent, is that you bring happiness to a fellow Muslim, or relieve him of distress, or pay off his debt or stave away hunger from him.
A person who knows the way, shows the way, and goes the way is a leader.
Blessed is he whose own faults keep him from seeing the faults of others.
An intelligent person is one who anticipates problems before they arise.
The most intelligent person is the one who humbles himself when others praise him.
Do not speak about what you do not know, for you will be held accountable for it.
Allah is sufficient for me; there is no power except Him.
The most just of people is the one who is just towards his own self.
The foundation of knowledge is patience, and its fruit is action.
Do not be a slave to others when Allah has created you free.
Fear Allah and you will have no cause to fear anyone.
The height of ignorance is to reject something you know nothing about.
Satisfaction is the result of accepting what Allah has given you.
A true friend is one who knows your weaknesses and still loves you.
The strongest of men are those who control their anger.
Knowledge is better than wealth, because knowledge protects you while you have to guard wealth.
The most merciful person is the one who forgives when he is able to take revenge.
One hour of reflection is better than seventy years of worship.
Do not speak harshly to people, lest they speak harshly to you in return.
The value of a man depends upon his courage; his veracity depends upon his self-respect and his chastity depends upon his sense of honor.
Do not follow the majority, follow the truth.
He who has no patience has no wisdom.
The best of deeds is the one that is done consistently, even if it is small.
Do not be too hard, lest you be broken; do not be too soft, lest you be squeezed.
The best way to make your dreams come true is to wake up.
The most excellent Jihad is that for the conquest of self.
Knowledge is the adornment of the rich and the refuge of the poor.
He who is greedy is disgraced; he who discloses his hardship will always be humiliated; he who has no control over his tongue will often have to face discomfort.
A friend cannot be considered a friend until he is tested in three occasions: in time of need, behind your back, and after your death.
Patience is a fruit that grows only in the hearts of the noble.
Do not let your difficulties fill you with anxiety, after all, it is only in the darkest nights that the stars shine more brilliantly.
Generosity is not in giving meagerly, but it is in giving generously, for Allah loves the generous.
Do not make your determination to be a slave to your whims.
The strongest of people are those who can control their desires.
he best way to find yourself is to lose yourself in the service of others.
Your life is limited, but your deeds are not. Leave a legacy that will outlive you.
The tongue is the sword of the heart, and the heart is the sheath of the tongue. Be careful of what you say, and how you say it.
The world is three days: As for yesterday, it has vanished, along with all that was in it. As for tomorrow, you may never see it. As for today, it is yours, so work in it.
A man who praises himself gains nothing but his own destruction.
A good deed done to an animal is like a good deed done to a human being, while an act of cruelty to an animal is as bad as an act of cruelty to a human being.
Silence is the best reply to a fool.
The worst sin is that which the sinner takes lightly.
He who trusts the world, the world betrays him.
Do not be a slave to your desires, for a man who is a slave to his desires is like a prisoner who is chained up.
The best wealth is that which is spent on the poor.
When love of this world enters the heart, the love of the Hereafter departs from it.
The greatest wealth is the wealth of the soul.
Do not let your anger overpower your reason.
The one who is humble has no fear of being humiliated.
The one who guards his tongue saves his head.
People are of two types: they are either your brother in faith, or your equal in humanity.
The most excellent way to know God is through reason.
Contentment is the capital that never dwindles.
Do not be misled by what you see around you, or be influenced by what you hear. You live in a world which is a playground of illusion, full of false paths, false values and false ideals.
A man who teaches his son manners and good conduct, teaches him the best of all things.
A good deed is better than knowledge, for it gives light to the heart.
The most virtuous of people are those who are the most excellent in character.
Knowledge is the lamp of the heart, and the light that guides us through the darkness of ignorance.
Our affairs are attached to the destiny decreed by Allah, even our best plans may lead us to destruction.
They have forsaken religion and are of no use to infidelity also. {Those who didn't get to any party}
One who rushes madly after inordinate desire, runs the risk of encountering destruction and death.
Overlook and forgive the weaknesses of the generous people because if they fall down, Allah will help them.
Failures are often the results of timidity and fears; disappointments are the results of bashfulness; hours of leisure pass away like summer-clouds, therefore, do not waste opportunity of doing good.
If someone’s deeds lower his position, his pedigree cannot elevate it.
One who hopes inordinately, impairs his deeds.
Contentment is the capital which will never diminish.
Wealth is the fountain head of passions.
Whoever warns you against sins and vices is like the one who gives you good tidings.
Tongue is a beast, if it is let loose, it devours.
If you are greeted then return the greetings more warmly. If you are favored, then repay the obligation manifold; but he who takes the initiative will always excel in merit.
The source of success of a claimant is the mediator.
People in this world are like travelers whose journey is going on though they are asleep. 
-------------------------------
If the right usurped from us is given back to us we shall take it, otherwise we shall go on claiming it.
To render relief to the distressed and to help the oppressed make amends for great sins.
O son of Adam, when you see that your Lord, the Glorified, bestows His Favors on you while you disobey Him, you should fear Him (take warning that His Wrath may not turn those very blessings into misfortunes).
Often your utterances and expressions of your face leak out the secrets of your hidden thoughts.
When you get ill do not get nervous about it and try as much as possible to be hopeful.
The best form of devotion to the service of Allah is not to make a show of it.
When you have to depart from this world and have to meet death (eventually), then why wish delay (why feel nervous about death).
Take warning ! He has not exposed so many of your sinful activities that it appears as if He has forgiven you (it may be that He has given you time to repent).
The structure of faith is supported by four pillars endurance, conviction, justice and jihad.
Endurance is composed of four attributes: eagerness, fear, piety and anticipation (of death). so whoever is eager for Paradise will ignore temptations; whoever fears the fire of Hell will abstain from sins; whoever practices piety will easily bear the difficulties of life and whoever anticipates death will hasten towards good deeds.
Conviction has also four aspects to guard oneself against infatuations of sin; to search for explanation of truth through knowledge; to gain lessons from instructive things and to follow the precedent of the past people, because whoever wants to guard himself against vices and sins will have to search for the true causes of infatuation and the true ways of combating them out and to find those true ways one has to search them with the help of knowledge, whoever gets fully acquainted with various branches of knowledge will take lessons from life and whoever tries to take lessons from life is actually engaged in the study of the causes of rise and fall of previous civilizations .
Justice also has four aspects depth of understanding, profoundness of knowledge, fairness of judgment and dearness of mind; because whoever tries his best to under- stand a problem will have to study it, whoever has the practice of studying the subject he is to deal with, will develop a clear mind and will always come to correct decisions, whoever tries to achieve all this will have to develop ample patience and forbearance and whoever does this has done justice to the cause of religion and has led a life of good repute and fame.
There are four causes of infidelity and loss of belief in Allah: hankering after whims, a passion to dispute every argument, deviation from truth; and dissension, because whoever hankers after whims does not incline towards truth; whoever keeps on disputing every argument on account of his ignorance, will always remain blind to truth, whoever deviates from truth because of ignorance, will always take good for evil and evil for good and he will always remain intoxicated without righteous guidance. And whoever makes a breach (with Allah and His Messenger) his path becomes difficult, his affairs will become complicated and his way to salvation will be uncertain.
Doubt has also four aspects absurd reasoning; fear; vacillation and hesitation; and unreasonable surrender to infidelity, because one who has accustomed himself to unreasonable and absurd discussions will never see the Light of Truth and will always live in the darkness of ignorance. One who is afraid to face facts (of life, death and the life after death) will always turn away from ultimate reality, one who allows doubts and uncertainties to vacillate him will always be under the control of Satan and one who surrenders himself to infidelity accepts damnation in both the worlds.
A virtuous person is better then virtue and a vicious person is worse than vice.
Be generous but not extravagant, be frugal but not miserly.
The best kind of wealth is to give up inordinate desires.
One who says unpleasant things about others, will himself quickly become a target of their scandal.
My son, learn four things from me and through them you will learn four more. If you keep them in mind your actions will not bring any harm to you: The greatest wealth is Wisdom; the greatest poverty is stupidity; the worst unsociable is that of vanity and self-glorification; and the best nobility of descent exhibits itself in politeness and in refinement of manner. The next four things, my son, are: “Do not make friendship with a fool because when he will try to do you good he will do you harm; do not make a miser your friend because he will run away from you at the time of your dire need; do not be friendly with a vicious and wicked person because he will sell you and your friendship at the cheapest price and do not make friend of a liar because like a mirage he will make you visualize very near the things which lie at a great distance and will make you see at the great distance the things which are near to you”.
Recommended prayers cannot attain the pleasures of Allah for you when obligatory prayers are left unattended.
A wise man first thinks and then speaks and a fool speaks first and then thinks.
A fool’s mind is at the mercy of his tongue and a wise man’s tongue is under the control of his mind.
One of the companions of Imam fell ill. Imam Ali called upon him and thus advised him: “Be thankful to Allah. He has made this illness a thing to atone your sins because a disease in itself has nothing to bring reward to anyone, it merely expiates one’s sins and so far as reward is concerned, one has to earn it with his good words and good deeds. The Almighty Lord grants Paradise to his creatures on account of their piety and noble thoughts”.
May Allah Bless Kabbab bin Aratt. He embraced Islam of his own freewill and immigrated (from Makkah) cheerfully. He lived a contented life. He bowed happily before the Will of Allah and he led the life of a mujahid.
If I cut a faithful Muslim into pieces to make him hate me, he will not turn into my enemy and if I give all the wealth of this world to a hypocrite to make him my friend he will not befriend me. It is so because the Holy Prophet has said: ” O Ali! No faithful Muslim will ever be your enemy and no hypocrite will ever be your friend. ”
The sin which makes you sad and repentant is more liked by Allah than the good deed which turns you arrogant.
Value of a man depends upon his courage; his veracity depends upon his self-respect and his chastity depends upon his sense of honor.
Success is the result of foresight and resolution, foresight depends upon deep thinking and planning and the most important factor of planning is to keep your secrets to yourself.
Be afraid of a gentleman when he is hungry, and of a mean person when his stomach is full.
Hearts of people are like wild beasts. They attach themselves to those who love and train them.
So long as fortune is favoring you, your defects will remain covered.
Only he who has the power to punish can pardon.
Generosity is to help a deserving person without his request, and if you help him after his request, then it is either out of self-respect or to avoid rebuke.
There is no greater wealth than wisdom, no greater poverty than ignorance; no greater heritage than culture and no greater support than consultation.
Patience is of two kinds: patience over what pains you, and patience against what you covet.
Wealth converts a strange land into homeland and poverty turns a native place into a strange land.
Lack of friends means, stranger in one’s own country.
Not to have a thing is less humiliating than to beg it.
Do not feel ashamed if the amount of charity is small because to refuse the needy is an act of greater shame.
To refrain from unlawful and impious source of pleasures is an ornament to the poor and to be thankful for the riches granted is the adornment of wealth.
If you cannot get things as much as you desire than be contented with what you have.
An ignorant person will always overdo a thing or neglect it totally.
The wiser a man is, the less talkative will he be.
Time wears out bodies, renews hopes, brings death nearer and takes away aspirations. Whoever gets anything from the world lives in anxiety for holding it and whoever loses anything passes his days grieving over the loss.
Whoever wants to be a leader should educate himself before educating others. Before preaching to others he should first practice himself. Whoever educates himself and improves his own morals is superior to the man who tries to teach and train others.
Every breath you take is a step towards death.
Anything which can be counted is finite and will come to an end.
If matters get mixed up then scrutinize the cause and you will know what the effects will be.
Acquire wisdom and truth from whomever you can because even an apostate can have them but unless they are passed over to a faithful Muslim and become part of wisdom and truth that he possesses, they have a confused existence in the minds of apostates.
Knowledge and wisdom are really the privilege of a faithful Muslim. If you have lost them, get them back even though you may have to get them from the apostates.
Value of each man depends upon the art and skill which he has attained.
A man hypocritically started praising Imam Ali, though he had no faith in him and Imam Ali hearing these praises from him said “I am less than what you tell about me but more than what you think about me”.
Those who have come alive out of a blood-bath live longer and have more children.
One who imagines himself to be all-knowing will surely suffer on account of his ignorance.
I appreciate an old man’s cautious opinion more than the valor of a young man.
I wonder at a man who loses hope of salvation when the door of repentance is open for him.
There were two things in this world which softened the Wrath of Allah and prevented its descent upon man: One has been taken away from you; hold the other stead- fastly. The one which has been taken away from men is the Holy Prophet and the one which is still left with them and which they must hold steadfastly is repentance and atonement for sins because Allah at one place in the Holy Book addressed the Holy Prophet and said Allah would not punish them while you were among them nor while they were asking for forgiveness. (Surah Anfal, 8 : 33)
Whoever keeps in order his affairs with Allah (follows His orders sincerely), Allah will also put his affairs with men in order. Whoever makes arrangement for his salvation, Allah will arrange his worldly affairs; whoever is a preacher for himself, Allah will also protect him.
He is the wisest and the most knowing man who advises people not to lose hope and faith in the Mercy of Allah and not to be too sure and over-confident of immunity from His Wrath and Punishment.
Like your body your mind also gets tired so refresh it by wise sayings.
That knowledge which remains only on your tongue is very superficial. The intrinsic value of knowledge is that you act upon it.
Your welfare does not lie in your having enormous wealth and numerous children but it rests in your being highly educated and forbearing and in your being proud of your obedience to Allah. If you do a good deed then thank Allah for it and if you commit a sin then repent and atone for it. In this world there is a real welfare for two kinds of people, one is the person who, when commits a sin, atones for it and the other is anxious to do good as much as possible.
Importance of the deeds that you have done with fear of Allah cannot be minimized and how can the deeds which are acceptable to Allah be considered unimportant.
“Nearest to the prophets are those persons who have to those prophets and obey them”. Saying this, Imam Ali cited a passage from the Holy Qur’an ‘Best liked by Abraham and nearest to him were the people who obeyed him’. He further said, “That the present times are the times of our Holy Prophet and his faithful followers. The best friend of our Holy Prophet is he who, though not related to him, obeys the orders of Allah and his greatest enemy is the man who though related to him, disobeys Allah ‘.
Imam Ali was told of a Kharijite that he got up in the night to pray and recite the Holy Book. Imam Ali said, “To sleep with having sincere faith in religion and Allah is better than to pray with wavering faith”.
Whenever a tradition of the Holy Prophet is related to you, scrutinize it, do not be satisfied with mere verbatim repetition of the same because there are many people who repeat the words containing knowledge but only few ponder over them and try to fully grasp the meaning they convey.
Imam Ali heard somebody reciting the passage of the Holy Quran we belong to Allah and our return is towards Him, Imam Ali said, “How true it is ! Our declaring that we belong to Allah indicates that we accept Him as our Master, Owner and Lord. And when we say that our return is towards Allah indicates that we accept our mortality”.
Some people praised Imam Ali on his face. He replied, “Allah knows me very well and I also know myself more than you. Please, Lord ! make me better than what they imagine me to be and please excuse those Weaknesses of mine which they are not aware of”.
To secure for you fame, credit as well as blessings, the help that you give to men in need, should possess the following attributes: whatever its extent, it should be considered by you as trifling so that it may be granted a high status; it should be given secretly, Allah will manifest it; and it must be given immediately so that it becomes pleasant.
Your society will pass through a period when cunning and crafty intriguers will be favored by status, when profligates will be considered as well-bred, well-behaved and elegant elites of the society, when just and honest persons will be considered as weaklings, when charity will be considered as a loss to wealth and property, when support and help to each other will be considered as favour and benevolence and when prayers and worship to Allah will be taken up for the sake of show to gain popularity and higher status, at such times regimes will be run under the advice of women and the youngsters will be the rulers and counselors of the State.
Nawf bin Fizala Bakali, the famous scholar of the early Islamic days says that one night he was with Imam Ali. In the middle of the night, Imam Ali got up from his bed, looked for sometime at the stars and inquired of Nawf whether he was awake. Nawf said: “I got from my bed replying, “Yes, Amirul Mo’minin (Commander of the Faithful) ! I am awake”.
Imam Ali said Nawf ! Those are the fortunate people who adopt piety as the principle of their lives and are fully attentive to their welfare for the Hereafter. They accept bare earth as the most comfortable bed and water as the most pleasant drink. They adopt the Holy Qur’an and prayers as their guide and protector and like Prophet Jesus Christ (Isa) they forsake the world and its vicious pleasure.
Nawf ! Prophet David (Daud) once got up at such an hour in the night and said this was the hour when prayers of everyone who prayed were accepted except of those who forcibly collected revenues or who were scandal- mongers or were persons in the police force of a despotic regime or were musicians”.
105, Those who give up religion to better their lot in life seldom succeed. The Wrath of Allah makes them go through more calamities and losses than the gains they gather for themselves.
There are many educated people who have ruined their future on account of their ignorance of religion. Their knowledge did not prove of any avail to them.
We, Ahlul Bayt (chosen descendants of the Holy Prophet), hold such central and balancing position in religion that those who are deficient in understanding and acting upon its principles, will have to come to us for reformation, and those who are overdoing it have got to learn moderation from us.
A Divine rule can be established only by a man, who, where justice and equity are required, neither feels deficient nor weak and who is not greedy and avaricious.
Sohayl bin Hunayf Ansari was a favourite companion of Imam Ali. At the time of Imam Ali’s return from Siffin, he died at Kufa of the wounds sustained in the battle. His death left Imam Ali very sad and he said: “Even if a mountain loves me it will be crushed into bits”. (it means people are tested with my love, and to prove it they have to pass through loss and calamities).
Anyone who loves us Ahlul Bayt must be ready to face a life of austerity.
When a community is composed of honest, sober and virtuous people, your forming a bad opinion about anyone of its members, when nothing wicked has been seen of him, is a great injustice to him. On the contrary in a corrupt society to form good opinion of anyone of them and to trust him is to harm yourself.
When somebody asked Imam Ali as to how he was getting on, he replied: “What do you want to know about a person whose life is leading him towards ultimate death, whose health is the first stage towards illness and whom society has forced out of his retreat”.
There are many persons whom constant grants of His Bounties turn them wicked and fit for His punishment and there are many more who have become vain and self- deceptive because the Merciful Allah has not exposed their weaknesses and vices to the world and the people speak highly about them. All this is an opportunity. No trial of the Lord is more severe than the time He allows (in which either you may repent or get deeper into vices).
Two kinds of people will be damned on my account Those who form exaggerated opinion about me and those who under-estimate me because they hate me.
To lose or to waste an opportunity will result in grief and sorrow.
She world is like a serpent, so soft to touch, but so full of lethal poison. Unwise people are allured by it and drawn towards it, and wise men avoid it and keep away from its poisonous effects.
When asked about Quraysh, Imam Ali replied that amongst them Bani Mukhzum are like sweet scented flower of Quraysh; their men are good to talk to and their women prove very good wives; Bani Abdush Shams are very intelligent and very prudent but we (of Bani Hashim) are very generous and very brave to face death. Bani Abdush Shams are more in numbers, ugly and intriguers but Bani Hashim are beautiful, good speakers and orators and very faithful as friends.
What a difference is there between a deed whose pleasure passes away leaving behind it the pangs of pain and punishment and the deed whose oppressive harshness comes to an end leaving behind Divine rewards !
Blessings are for the man who humbles himself before Allah, whose sources of income are honest, whose intentions are always honorable, whose character is noble, whose habits are sober, who gives away in the cause and in the Name of Allah, the wealth which is lying surplus with him, who controls his tongue from vicious and useless talk, who abstains from oppression, who faithfully follows the traditions of the Holy Prophet and who keeps himself away from innovation in religion.
Jealousy in woman is unpardonable but in man it is a sign of his faith in religion (because Islam has permitted polygamy and prohibited polyandry).
I define Islam for you in a way that nobody dared do it before me. Islam means obedience to Allah, obedience to Allah means having sincere faith in Him, such a faith means to believe in His Power, belief in His Power means recognizing and accepting His Majesty, acceptance of His Majesty means fulfilling the obligations laid down by Him and fulfillment of obligations means actions (Therefore, Islam does not mean mere faith, but faith plus deeds).
I wonder at the mentality of a miser, fearing poverty he takes to stinginess and thus hastily pushes himself head- long into a state of want and destitution, he madly desires plenty and ease, but throws it away without understand- ing. In this world he, of his own free will, leads the life of a a beggar and in the next world he will have to submit an account like the rich.
Whoever is not diligent in his work, will suffer; who- ever has no share of Allah in his wealth and in his life then there is no place for him in His Realm.
Be very cautious of cold in the beginning of winter and welcome it at the close of the season because cold season effects your bodies exactly as it effects the trees; in the early season its severity makes them shrivel and shed their leaves and at the end it helps them to revive.
If you understand Allah’s Majesty, then you will not attach any importance to the creatures.
An Angel announces daily: “Birth of more human beings means so many more will die, collection of more wealth means of much more will be destroyed, erection of more buildings means so many more ruins will come”.
This world is not a permanent place, it is a passage, a road on which you are passing. There are two kinds of people here: One is the kind of those who have sold their souls for eternal damnation, the other is of those who have purchased their souls and freed them from damnation.
A friend cannot be considered a friend unless he is tested on three occasions: in time of need, behind your back and after your death.
Anyone who has been granted four attributes will not be deprived of their (four) effects; one who prays to Allah and implores to Him will not be deprived of granting of his prayers; one who repents for his thoughts and deeds will not be refused acceptance of the repentance; one who has atoned for his sins will not be debarred from salvation and one who thanks Allah for the Blessings and Bounties will not be denied the increase in them.
Daily prayers are the best medium through which one can Seek the nearness to Allah. Hajj is Jihad (Holy War) for every weak person. For everything that you own there is Zakat, and Zakat of your body is fasting. The Jihad of a woman is to afford pleasant company to her husband.
If you want to pray to Allah for better means of subsistence, then first give something in charity
When someone is sure of the returns, then he shows generosity.
Aid (from Allah) is in proportion to the trouble.
He who practices moderation and frugality will never be threatened with poverty.
One of the conveniences in life is to have less children.
Loving one another is half of wisdom.
Grief is half of old age.
Grant of patience (from Allah) is in proportion to the extent of calamity you are passing through. If you exhibit fretfulness, irritation, and despair in calamities, then your patience and your exertions are wasted.
Many persons get nothing out of their fasts but hunger and thirst, many more get nothing out of their night prayers but exertions and sleepless nights. Wise and sagacious persons are praiseworthy even if they do not fast and sleep during the nights.
Defend your faith (in Allah) with the help of charity. Protect your wealth with the aid of Zakat. Let the prayers guard you from calamities and disasters.
A man can be valued through his sayings.
One who does not realize his own value is condemned to utter failure. (Every kind of complex, superiority or inferiority is harmful to man).
Everyone has an end, it may be pleasant or sorrowful.
Everyone, who is born, has to die and once dead he is as good as having not come into existence.
One, who adopts patience, will never be deprived of success though it may take a long time to reach him.
Accept promises of only those persons who can steadfastly adhere to their pledges.
You are ordained to recognize the Imams (the right successors of the Holy Prophet) and to obey them.
You have been shown, if you only care to see; you have been advised if you care to take advantage of advice; you have been told if you care to listen to good counsels.
Admonish your brother (comrade) by good deeds and kind regards, and ward off his evil by favoring him.
One, who enters the places of evil repute has no right to complain against a man who speaks ill of him.
One, who acquires power cannot avoid favoritism.
One, who is willful and conceited will suffer losses and calamities and one who seeks advice can secure advantages of many counsels.
One, who guards his secrets has complete control over his affairs.
Poverty is the worst form of death.
One, who serves a person from whom he gets no reciprocal performance of duties, in fact, worships him.
One should not obey anyone against the commands of Allah.
Do not blame a man who delays in securing what are his just rights but blame lies on him who grasps the rights which do not belong to him.
Conceit is a barrier to progress and improvement.
Death is near and our mutual company is short.
There is enough light for one who wants to see.
It is wiser to abstain then to repent.
Often inordinate desire to secure a single gain acts as a hindrance for the quest of many profitable pursuits.
One, who seeks advice learns to realize his mistakes.
One who struggles for the cause of Allah secures victory over His enemies.
Your supremacy over others is in proportion to the extent of your knowledge and wisdom.
The best way to punish an evil-doer is to reward handsomely a good person for his good deeds.
If you want to remove evil from the minds of others then first give up evil intentions yourself.
Obstinacy will prevent you from a correct decision.
Greed is permanent slavery.
Deficiency will result in shame and sorrow but caution and foresight will bring peace and security.
To keep silent when you can say something wise and useful is as bad as keeping on propagating foolish and unwise thoughts.
If two opposite theories are propagated one will be wrong.
When truth was revealed to me I never doubted it.
I never lied and the things revealed to me were not false I never misled anybody nor was I misled.
One, who starts tyranny, will repent soon.
Death is never very far.
One who forsakes truth earns eternal damnation.
One who cannot benefit by patience will die in grief.
In this world, man is a target of death, an easy prey to calamities, here every morsel and every draught is liable to choke one, here one never receives a favor until he loses another instead, here every additional day in one’s life is a day reduced from the total span of his existence, when death is the natural outcome of life, how can we expect immortality?
O son of Adam, if you have collected anything in excess of your actual need, you will act only as its trustee for someone else to use it.
Hearts have the tendency of likes and dislikes and are liable to be energetic and lethargic, therefore, make them work when they are energetic because if hearts are forced (to do a thing) they will be blinded.
Minds get tired like bodies. When you feel that your; mind is tired, then invigorate it with sober advice.
If you find that somebody is not grateful for all that you have done for him, then do not get disappointed because often you will find that someone else feels under your obligation though you have done nothing for him and thus your good deeds will be compensated, and Allah will reward you for your goodness.
The first fruit of forbearance is that people will sympathize with you and they will go against the man who offended you arrogantly.
One who takes account of his shortcomings will always gain by it; one who is unmindful of them will always suffer. One who is afraid of the Day of Judgment, is safe from the Wrath of Allah. One who takes lessons from the events of life, gets vision, one who acquires vision becomes wise and one who attains wisdom achieves knowledge.
Bear sorrows and calamities patiently, otherwise you will never be happy.
One who comes into power often oppresses.
Adversities often bring good qualities to the front.
If a friend envies you, then he is not a true friend.
Avarice dulls the faculties of judgment and wisdom.
Oppression and tyranny are the worse companions for the Hereafter.
The best deed of a great man is to forgive and forget.
Silence will create respect and dignity; justice and fair play will bring more friends; benevolence and charity will enhance prestige and position; courtesy will draw benevolence; service of mankind will secure leadership and good words will overcome powerful enemies.
A greedy man will always find himself in the shackles of humility.
There are people who worship Allah to gain His Favors, this is the worship of traders; while there are some who worship Him to keep themselves free from His Wrath, this is the worship of slaves; a few who obey Him out’ of their sense of gratitude and obligations, this is the worship of free and noble men.
